Our family had been learning Chinese
for over a year.
It wasn’t easy.
God has many titles.
Did you know he has only one name?
[Speaking Chinese]
I was ready, or at least I thought so.
Matthew!
Yeah, I’ll be right there.
We were making progress,
and we weren’t giving up.
It seemed like most people
just weren’t interested.
We were not having a good morning.
What happened?
Mom and Liz weren’t having
a good morning either.
Brother and Sister Lin joined us.
They’ve been a big help to us.
We told them about our morning.
We were finally able to converse a little
and give presentations,
but everything seemed to fall flat.
You ask good questions at the door
—but not always the right one.
You see, when you learn the language,
do not forget to learn about people.
He was right.
Our questions started conversations
in our old territory, but not here.
Your pronunciation is very good, see.
Thanks, Brother Lin.
We needed a different approach
where we didn’t just learn the language
but also how to reach the heart
of someone who speaks it.
In the July 2019 Watchtower,
we read about “Reaching the Hearts
of Nonreligious People.”
Did you notice in paragraph 7,
how do you think that we could be more
like the apostle Paul?
Well, Paul was a Jew,
but when he was talking to other people,
he had to adapt his presentation.
I like what 1 Corinthians 9:20-23 says:
“To the Jews I became as a Jew
in order to gain Jews;
to those under law I became . . .”
Liz was right.
When Paul spoke to fellow Jews in Athens,
he reasoned from the Scriptures.
But when he spoke to the Greeks
at the Areopagus, he adapted,
reasoning with them first without the Bible.
He later wrote:
“I have become all things
to people of all sorts,
so that I might by all possible means
save some.”
That’s what we needed to do.
We learned more about the people.
We started to listen more
and talk about things
that interested them.
We found different ways
to start conversations.
And we kept learning more about the culture.
Part of a Chinese proverb I found says:
“He who comes near ink is stained black.”
It’s been a great way to introduce
Proverbs 13:20:
“The one walking with the wise
will become wise.”
It all comes down to showing love.
The more we paid attention
to how we were teaching,
the more we were able to show people
the God who loves them.